What happens when you initialize a repository?

It enhances a simple directory into repository by adding meta data covering the
evolution of the project. You need to do it when you want to start tracking
version and changes of your code.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository?
What value do you think it offers?

It lets you define what is logical unit of code to be committed. It offers more
defining power and flexibility to determine exactly what is a single commit
while maybe solving to different things in parallel. All changes in one file are
part of one commit. They can not be split across commits.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

By adding to the current staging area only the changes that are part of the same
logical unit.

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your
history organized? How would branches help?

On experimental features or side projects (forks) of codebase. No could work
from the same foundational codebase without interfering and potentially
breaking the other projects.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

By visualizing them in the terminal through simple animation, git log --graph
branch_1 branch_2v


What is the result of merging two branches together?
Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

it results in new branch with inherits the commits of its parents. The
label of the ew branch is the label of the currently checked out branch's name.
The commits are logged according to their timestamp so can be intwined.
Subsequent commits in a merged branch can thus not have a parent child relation
ship. to diff a branch against its parent you can use git shoe branch.
The show command will automatically find the parent of the commit.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs.
always doing merges manually?

Auto merging: less redundant work to do
Cons: might sometimes encounter unexpected behavior.
